The Constitution

Ch 1. Basic rights

§1 All public power comes from the citizens. Through Grongress is this power exercised.

§2 Every player that has joined the server and the gronglets are considered citizens.

§3a Everyone is entitled to the rights set forth in the universal declaration of human rights (UDHR).

§3b Articles of the UDHR that depend on real-world institutions or resources such as the right to asylum (Art. 14) or formal education (Art. 26.1, 26.3) shall be interpreted in a symbolic or limited manner.

§3c All articles must be interpreted within the context of a Minecraft government.

Ch 2. Grongress

§1 Grongress has power to write, change, and abolish laws.

§2 Only through law can Grongress use their power.

§3 A citizen is an eligible voter in Grongress if they have been on the server in the past 168 hours (7 days).

§4 References of "more than [ratio] of all eligible voters" shall mean that the motion or decision is passed if the votes of those present exceed the specified ratio of the total number of eligible voters (present and absent). Not necessarily requiring all eligible voters to participate.

§5a There are two ways of changing the constitution; instant and normal.

§5b Instant changes to the constitution require unanimity of all eligible voters.

§5c Normal changes to the constitution require two identical decisions by Grongress, made at least 168 hours apart. Each decision must be approved by more than two-thirds of all eligible voters.

§6 For enacting law more than half of all eligible voters have to vote in favor.

§7 No enacted law can violate the constitution.

§8 No law can discriminate between any players, groups of players, gronglets, or groups of gronglets.

§9 Votes in Grongress are public.

§10a A speaker shall be confirmed by more than half of all eligible voters.

§10b The speaker has the power to assemble parliament and lead procedures.

§10c When an eligible voter submits a motion to the speaker they must make sure a vote on that is held within 168 hours.

§10d The speaker may appoint someone temporally to carry out their duty in case they are unable to. 

§10e The speaker are subject to votes of no confidence.

Ch 3. Courts

§1 The court's responsibility is to fix disputes regarding law. 

§2 The court has the power to interpret law, give out orders in accordance with law, and to give out punishment in accordance with law.

§3a A judge shall be appointed for all cases. The judge must be one of the players.

§3b The judge cannot be the defendant or prosecutor.

§3c The judge cannot have any bias or conflict of interest regarding the case before them.

§3d In cases where multiple players are eligible to be judge and want to be appointed judge, then the judge shall be appointed by lot with an equal probability of all the eligible players.

§4a If no judge can be appointed in accordance to §3 then a speaker of court shall be appointed to lead procedures.

§4b The verdict of such a decision shall be decided by a coin flip.

§4c The consequences of the verdict shall be decided by the speaker of court.

§5a One may appeal a decision by submitting a Grongress appeal motion to the speaker of Grongress. The speaker decides if such a motion is heard. 

§5b If the motion is decided to be heard, then Grongress shall have a debate regarding the decision. After the debate if more than half of eligible voters votes in favor of a newly decided verdict and consequence, then the previous decision is overturned and the newly decided decision is implemented.

§5c Grongress may not overturn a decision on the unconstitutionally of any law passed.  

Ch 4. Government

§1 Grongress may create government institutions and appoint people to government institutions in order to execute law.

§2 All positions in Government are subject to votes of no confidence.

§3a A vote of no confidence is passed when more than half of eligible voters are in favor. 

§3b The consequence of a successful no confidence vote is the immediate removal of the individual from their position. However, the individual shall continue in a limited transitional capacity until Grongress appoints a replacement, with only the authority necessary to maintain basic continuity of operations.