the criminal code shall read:

Criminal Code

ch 1. Nature of Crimes 

§1 Crimes must be committed with intent.

§2 Courts shall decide whether or not a crime has been committed and give sentences.

§3 A crime is not a crime if a consent form is signed by the person the crime is committed against before the crime took place.

§4 The death penalty should be an allowable punishment for all crimes.

§5 You may be convicted of a crime that was not a crime at the time when the act was made if it was later added by parliament.

ch 2. Crimes

§1 1st 2nd 3rd degree Murder is a crime, and the punishment is death.

§2 Theft is when someone takes something from someone else without their permission. The punishment is returning what you stole, and a mark in a public record.  

§3 No kidnaping the gronglets, you may move them. The punishment is a ban for a week.

§4 If someone changes property in a bad manner without the owners permission they shall be convicted of property damage. The punishment is 1 detonated TNT on the property of the convicted.

§5 If someone lies in court they shall be convicted of perjury. The punishment is that the convicted can only eat dried kelp for between 2-72 hours. 

§6 If someone does an act that sabotages or contradicts the state they have committed treason. The punishment is banishment for between 1 and 31 days. 

§7 If someone uses a gronglet as slingshot ammo or in another way endangered a gronglet they shall be convicted of gronglet endangerment. The punishment is a 730 Minecraft days ban.

ch 3. Crime modifiers

§1 One may be convicted of Attempted [Crime] if they take a substantial step toward committing a crime, even if the crime is not completed. Punishment shall be determined as if the crime occurred, but may be reduced at the court's discretion.

§2 One may be convicted of Threatened [Crime] if they intentionally communicate a credible threat to commit a crime, and the threat causes reasonable fear or disruption. Mere empty or vague threats without indication of intent or effect shall not be sufficient for conviction.